Docs: semantic search (#22116)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/content/guides/ai/keyword-search.mdx

---
id: 'ai-keyword-search'
title: 'Keyword search'
description: 'Learn how to search by words or phrases.'
subtitle: 'Learn how to search by words or phrases.'
sidebar_label: 'Keyword search'
---

> Keyword search involves locating documents or records that contain specific words or phrases, primarily based on the exact match between the search terms and the text within the data. It differs from [semantic search](/docs/guides/ai/semantic-search), which interprets the meaning behind the query to provide results that are contextually related, even if the exact words are not present in the text. Semantic search considers synonyms, intent, and natural language nuances, offering a more nuanced approach to information retrieval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keyword search involves locating documents or records that contain specific words or phrases, primarily based on the exact match between the search terms and the text within the data. It differs from [semantic search](/docs/guides/ai/semantic-search), which interprets the meaning behind the query to provide results that are contextually related, even if the exact words aren't present in the text. Semantic search considers synonyms, intent, and natural language nuances, offering a more nuanced approach to information retrieval.
```

prefer using contractions (sounds less formal)

In Postgres, keyword search implements [full-text search](/docs/guides/database/full-text-search) capabilities, enabling efficient querying of large datasets. It supports indexing and text analysis for data retrieval, focusing on records that match the search criteria. Postgres' full-text search capability extends beyond simple keyword matching to address linguistic nuances, making it effective for applications that demand precise text queries.

## Why would I want to use keyword search?

> Keyword search is particularly useful in scenarios where precision and specificity matter. It is more effective than semantic search when users are looking for information using exact terminology or specific identifiers. This approach ensures that results directly contain those terms, reducing the chance of retrieving irrelevant information that might be semantically related but not what the user seeks.

Author: ```suggestion
Keyword search is particularly useful in scenarios where precision and specificity matter. It's more effective than semantic search when users are looking for information using exact terminology or specific identifiers. This approach ensures that results directly contain those terms, reducing the chance of retrieving irrelevant information that might be semantically related but not what the user seeks.
```

> For example, in technical or academic research databases, researchers often search for specific studies, compounds, or concepts identified by certain terms or codes. Searching for a specific chemical compound using its exact molecular formula or a unique identifier (e.g., CAS number) will yield more focused and relevant results compared to a semantic search, which could return a wide range of documents discussing the compound in different contexts. Keyword search ensures documents that explicitly mention the exact term are found, allowing users to access the precise data they need efficiently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, in technical or academic research databases, researchers often search for specific studies, compounds, or concepts identified by certain terms or codes. Searching for a specific chemical compound using its exact molecular formula or a unique identifier (for example, CAS number) will yield more focused and relevant results compared to a semantic search, which could return a wide range of documents discussing the compound in different contexts. Keyword search ensures documents that explicitly mention the exact term are found, allowing users to access the precise data they need efficiently.
```

> For example, in technical or academic research databases, researchers often search for specific studies, compounds, or concepts identified by certain terms or codes. Searching for a specific chemical compound using its exact molecular formula or a unique identifier (e.g., CAS number) will yield more focused and relevant results compared to a semantic search, which could return a wide range of documents discussing the compound in different contexts. Keyword search ensures documents that explicitly mention the exact term are found, allowing users to access the precise data they need efficiently.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, in technical or academic research databases, researchers often search for specific studies, compounds, or concepts identified by certain terms or codes. Searching for a specific chemical compound using its exact molecular formula or a unique identifier will yield more focused and relevant results compared to a semantic search, which could return a wide range of documents discussing the compound in different contexts. Keyword search ensures documents that explicitly mention the exact term are found, allowing users to access the precise data they need efficiently.
```

> It is also possible to combine keyword search with semantic search to get the best of both worlds. See [Hybrid search](/docs/guides/ai/hybrid-search) for more details.

Author: ```suggestion
It's also possible to combine keyword search with semantic search to get the best of both worlds. See [Hybrid search](/docs/guides/ai/hybrid-search) for more details.
```
